Assignment 3 Group 9

Members
Daniel Ross
Alan Tang
Sean Thomas

extract_words.py written by Sean Thomas
This Python script will start by reading in a text file of the novel, The Last Spaceship, and then putting each individual word into a list. 

From there, the program will iterate through the generated word list and print each word on its own line in the text file allwords.txt in the same folder that contains the Python and Processing files. 

In addition, this loop will generate a dictionary of each unique word and with the number of times it appears in the novel while printing each unique word on its own line in the text file uniquewords.txt in the same folder used for the Processing file a3_novelvisualization. 

After this loop, Python will iterate through the previously generated dictionary  to create another dictionary that pairs a frequency of word appearance with the number of words which appear that many times. The program will then generate a sorted version of this dictionary and iterate through it and for each word frequency, it will print [frequency]:[# of words with that freq] to its own line in the text file wordfrequency.txt in the folder used for the Processing file a3_wordfrequency 

a3_novelvisualization.pde written by Alan Tang
This Processing program visualizes a random assortment of the unique words 
in the novel The Last Spaceship. These words are grabbed from a text file
uniquewords.txt. They are then put in a random order with consistent
spacing and do not run over the edge of the canvas.

The words are sorted by different colors based off of the word length. The
three categories are short words (5 letters or less), medium words (6-8 letters), 
and long words (9+ letters). Short words are a lime like green, medium are blue,
and long are copper. These colors were chosen because they fit well together in
a pallette but are still distinct enough to show the diction in a novel (which I
felt was really interesting to look at).

The font chosen was Oswald because I felt it matched the space theme of the novel.
The font size is 28 because it is a happy medium between having too many words and
not really being able to distinguish any and having too little. This helps to see the
trend of the types of words the novel uses.

Lastly, the program has the additional feature of resetting the canvas with different 
words by clicking on it.

...

a3_wordfrequency.pde written by Daniel
This Processing program visualizes the frequencies of words in the book
The Last Spaceship, as well as the number of words with those frequencies.
The frequency values are visualized with a color and the position of a
block along the X-Axis. The size of the block depicts how many words have
that frequency.

Some extra features in this program that weren't requested includes the
ability to freely rezise the window with the graphics scaling to fit.
Additionally, the program is optimized to only calculate how graphical
elements should be drawn only once every time the window is resized.
